The Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) says it has suspended its two months nationwide strike. The JUSUN’s Deputy National Deputy President, Emmanuel Abioye, stated this in a communique issued at the end of an emergency National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the union on Wednesday in Abuja. JUSUN began a nationwide strike on April 6, over the failure of the government to implement the law recognising financial autonomy for the judiciary. President Muhammadu Buhari had, on May 22, 2020, signed into law an Executive Order granting financial autonomy to the legislature and the judiciary across the 36 states of the federation. According to Abioye, the NEC-in-session commended the Chief Justice of the federation and all heads of courts for their patience and understanding throughout the period of the industrial action. “NEC-in-session commends the effort of the NJC in making sure that the Governors obey the MOA, Judgment and agreement on the Financial Autonomy of the Judiciary. “NEC-in-session commends the NWC/NEC and all JUSUN members for all their sacrifice, understanding and patience, “he said. According to him, NEC condemned the actions of the Governors of Kaduna, Plateau and Benue for withholding salaries of Judiciary in their various states for months and urge all governors involved to do the needful. Abioye also said that NEC-in-session agreed that there shall be introduction of peculiar allowance throughout the State and Federal Courts. ”NEC-in-session discussed extensively and after putting so many issues into consideration i.e. the intervention of NJC and other stakeholders, the NEC has resolved that the strike is hereby suspended. ”NEC-in-session plead with the NJC, the Presidential Implementation Committee, Attorney General of the Federation, Accountant General of the Federation and all stakeholders to see that the issue of Judiciary Financial Autonomy is laid to rest finally. ”This is as provided for in Section 81 (3), 121 (3), and 162(9), of -1999 Constitution as amended,” he said. He said that the NEC-in-session also frowned at the deduction of salary of JUSUN members of Bayelsa and requested that the deducted sum be restored forthwith. Abioye, therefore, said that the NEC- in- session warned that members of JUSUN should not be victimised on the industrial action. (NAN)