The British and Nigerian governments have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the return of former governor James Ibori’s confiscated assets from the UK. The MOU signed on Tuesday at the Ministry of Justice, Abuja will see the return of over £4.2m recovered from the associates and family of Ibori to the Nigerian government. Ms. Catriona Laing, the British High Commissioner to Nigeria, who spoke during the ceremony declared that ill–gotten money was not welcome in the UK. “The return of these assets to Nigeria has been subject to a number of hard fought legal challenges by third parties which were defeated in the UK courts. “We will ensure the full weight of law enforcement to crack down those who use, move or hide their proceed of crime in the UK”, Laing stated. She added that transparent asset recovery is priority for both UK and Nigeria governments. “It is vital that this agreement makes strong provision for transparency, monitoring and accountability. “It is a guiding principle of both UK and Nigerian governments that stolen assets should be used for projects that benefit Nigeria’s poor”, Laing said. Recall that Ibori had in February 2012, pleaded guilty in a UK court to money laundering, conspiracy to defraud and forgery and was sentenced to 13 years in prison. His wife, sister and mistress were also sentenced for similar offences. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar  Malami, who was present at the ceremony said the federal government was committed to the transparent management of all recovered assets. He stated, “The assets returned will support and assist in expediting the construction of three major infrastructure projects across Nigeria. “The projects are the Lagos-Ibadan expressway, Abuja – Kano road and the second Niger Bridge that are being executed under the supervision of the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority. “The project will boost economic growth and help alleviate poverty by connecting people and supply chains from the East to the West and to the Northern part of Nigeria”. Mr. Dayo Apata, SAN, the Solicitor-General of the Federation, who welcomed the guests said the ministry had fully assumed its leadership role in its constitutional duty in the administration of Justice in Nigeria. “It has led to the formulation of National Strategies/Action Plan for combating corruption. “Vigorous pursuing repatriation of recovered looted funds/assets in the face of daunting challenges. “Drafting of Bills to stifle corrupt practices and to bring about and efficient and beneficial management of the proceeds of crime amongst others,” he noted.