Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development has inaugurated the Technical Working Group (TWG) for the Alternate School Programme (APS) to facilitate and fast track the implementation processes. Farouq during the inauguration ceremony on Tuesday in Abuja said the National Steering Committee (NSC) on ASP had done so much and finally reached the stage where programme implementation could commence. She said the TWG were drawn from the NSC member institutions and other key organisations. “The primary purpose of today’s meeting is to inaugurate the TWG such that they are enabled to forge ahead towards successful implementation of this very critical programme. “Beyond education provision, the programme should be seen as a means of improving the future outcomes of the children and all the way to the larger Nigerian economy. “It will also equip the children with life-long skills to enable them, in the future, contribute meaningfully to the Nigerian economy, provide some household income for their respective families,” Farouq said. READ ALSO: House Committee In Rowdy Session Over Humanitarian Ministry Budget According to her, the Terms of Reference (ToR) of the TWG include, develop strategic framework for the ASP, to design a consultative concept for the take-off of the ASP initiative. Others are to design a comprehensive monitoring, evaluation and impact assessment framework to enhance the effectiveness of the programme and to maintain a comprehensive data base and response on the implementation of the ASP. ”To ensure the effective and timely implementation of all the field work on the ASP. “Also, to undertake all other works and assignments as directed by the NSC to ensure successful implementation and impact of the programme on Nigerians; you are hereby inaugurated,” Farouq said. In his acceptance speech, the Chairman of the TWG, Dr. Umar Bindir who is also the National Coordinator of National Social Investment Programme, said they have seen and understood the ToR. “We have diligently accepted the responsibilities and we shall hold our inaugural meeting today to demonstrate that we mean business. “God’s willing, today is the first day of Ramadan and we are inaugurated today, this demonstrate the great blessings of the committee and we promise to deliver to the later. “On behalf of the committee, we thank you all for this assignment and we will do everything to support the Ministers, Permanent Secretaries, NSC and other stakeholders to ensure that we deliver on time and effectively,” Bindir said. Members of the TWG were drawn from Ministries of Humanitarian Affairs, Women Affairs, Education, Information and Culture, Agriculture, Communication and Digital Economy and Budget and National Planning. Others are: the Presidency, National Orientation Agency, The National Bureau of Statistics, National Population Commission, Save the Children, National Assembly, UNICEF, UNESCO, NYSC, UBEC, NIMC, SGD, Microfinance, Governors Forum and many others. (NAN)