Major-General Leo Irabor, Chief of Defence Staff The new CDS on March 2016, Major General Leo Irabor served as the Theatre Commander of the anti-terrorism war code name “Operation Lafiya Dole,” between March 2016 and May 2017. Operation Lafiya Dole is the army group leading the onslaught against Boko Haram in the North East of Nigeria. He was later appointed the commander of the Training and Doctrine Command of the Nigerian Army, TRADOC, Minna. This was after a stint as Chief of Training and Operations, Defence headquarters General Ibrihim Attahiru: Chief of Army Staff Incidentally, the new chief of army staff (COAS) Ibrahim Attahiru, took over Major-General Leo Irabor as the Commander of “Operation Lafiya Dole,” in May 2017. He was however, sacked six months later in December 2017 ostensibly for failing in the fight against insurgency in the North East, though unconfirmed reports had it that his sack was due rivalry between him and Tukur Buratai, who feared that Attahiru was being primed as his replacement. Well, the army chief once sacked for incompetence is the one  nowlead our troops against the ongoing fight against Boko Haram. Rear Admiral AZ Gambo: Chief of Navy Staff The new CoNS has occupied a number high level position in the Nigerian Military service, including Director of Search and Rescue Defence Headquarters and Chief Staff Officer Naval Training Command, among others. He was promoted from Commodore to his present rank or rear Admiral in December 2016. Air-Vice Marshal Isiaka O. Amao, Chief of Air Staff The new Air Chief is an indigene of Osogbo in Osun State. Until his appointment, Air-Vice Marshal I.O Amao was the Commandant of the Nigerian Armed Forces Resettlement Centre, Oshodi, Lagos State. He was born on September 14, 1965 and enlisted into the Nigerian Air Force on 19 Jan 1984 as a member of 35 NDA Regular Course. In December 1986, he was commissioned as Pilot Officer. A fighter pilot, Amao has also participated in various operations which include Draw Down of AFISMA operation in Mali from Aug 2013 – January 14, operation ZAMAN LAFIYA from 20 February – 19 July 15 and operation LAFIYA DOLE (North East operations) from 19 July 15 – 16 February 16. He has been decorated with the Forces Service Star (FSS), Meritorious Service Star (MSS), Distinguished Service Star (DSS), General Service Medal (GSM), River Benue Star (RBS), among others. Air-Vice Marshal Isiaka Oladayo Amao is married to Elizabeth Olubunmi Amao with three children. He likes reading, dancing, travelling, playing golf and fish farming.