The Federal Government says it has opened talks with the Peoples Republic of China to have access to COVID-19 vaccines for Nigeria. Nigeria’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr.  Geoffery Onyeama, disclosed this  on Tuesday in Abuja while briefing journalists shortly after a bilateral meeting with the Chinese Foreign Minister, Wang Yi. Yi  is in Nigeria on a working visit. Onyeama recalled that China was of immense assistance to Nigeria at the advent of the pandemic, noting that the donation of protective equipment greatly affected the nation in the fight against COVID-19. READ ALSO: Who Gets The Vaccine And Who Doesn’t? The minister said that at this point when countries were discovering vaccines and China being one of them, Nigeria was engaging the country in the area of access to the vaccine. “We have received a lot of support from China in the area of personal protective equipment that they were very quick to provide us with and of course, with the vaccine discoveries now, “China is also one of those countries that have been able to discover vaccines for COVID-19, so we are also engaging with China to also help with regards to access to vaccines for our people,” he said. According to Onyeama, the relationship between both countries has dated 50 years, adding that both countries have many areas of cooperation to celebrate. “We also realised that in 2021, we would be celebrating 50 years of diplomatic relations between Nigeria and the Peoples Republic of China,” he said. Giving insights into some of the deliberations during the closed door meeting, Onyeama said that he and his counterpart looked at the trade relations between the two countries and areas that could be improved. READ ALSO: Nigeria To Access COVID-19 Vaccine January 2021 – Okonjo Iweala He said that they also discussed health issues and the global pandemic. “In the area of fostering relations, both countries are now considering having a direct flight from Nigeria to China. “We want to establish direct air link with China. We hope that very soon, a Nigerian carrier would be carrying out scheduled flights to China in the not too distant future,” he said. (NAN)