I recently took part in a meeting organised by an indigenous Non-Governmental Organisation. The theme of the meeting was “Education at the last Mile”. Meaning education for very financially disadvantaged children. After two days of discussions, I felt hopeless and yet hopeful. Strange as this may seem. Hopeless because of the condition of our schools and the fact that many Nigerian children go through extreme hardship to fund their education. I was hopeful that there are still those who recognise that we have a serious problem and that Nigeria’s future is at stake. People who are concerned and committed to the plight of a very vulnerable group “Nigerian children”. During the meeting, we heard directly from some of the children about the hardship they constantly experience just to get formal education. There are many whose families are so poor that they cannot afford to study after school because they must hawk and sell for their living. Sometimes, they must stop school to work or farm to raise money for their exams and upkeep. The Nigerian child faces too many challenges. From the failure of government to provide good quality health care to a robust social welfare system. Not to mention the insecurity in many parts of the country where children are kidnapped in hundreds with some never to return. It is unimaginable the trauma experienced by children who live in these parts of Nigeria. When many city and town dwellers think of the lack of basic amenities in Nigeria, it is viewed from the lens of their surroundings. We complain that we do not have enough hospitals in our towns and cities. Guess what! Its far worse in the rural areas. The likely implications of Nigerian children not being able to access good quality education can be imagined. I strongly believe that we should all be concerned about this. NGOs and international agencies that work with children have highlighted and continue to bring to our attention the issues that affect children’s education. They are mainly socio-economic issues and cultural also. The fact that government allocates a low amount to education is a huge problem. Millions of children out of school, while those who are in school acquire half-baked education from a poorly funded system If you are a Nigerian reading this article and think that this problem does not affect you, then kindly have a rethink. That your child attends a private school or one of the few government schools that are somewhat well funded does not mean you do not have a problem. According to UNICEF, about 10.5 million children are out of school in Nigeria though primary education is supposed to be free and compulsory. There are many sayings that generally imply that “children are the future”. If you agree with this saying then the implication is that the future of Nigeria is not promising. Millions of children out of school, while those who are in school acquire half-baked education from a poorly funded system. Certain trends should concern us about the future of Nigeria. One of these is the desire of many children who attend the private and well-funded schools is to relocate to other countries. All the knowledge and talent will be used for the benefit other countries. Our children are being exported. The fear of a stress filled life and unemployment is driving them away. The system deprives our children of succeeding and thriving in their own country. I do not think I am the only one who has met school leavers who cannot speak, read or write in English properly, then find out they gained entry into an institution of higher learning. They even graduate and gain employment, and now we all can see the outcome of having half-baked or half-educated people in various sectors. We hear about massive cheating and exam malpractice. People even laugh about how clever and inventive the children are with the cheating that they don’t get caught. While laughing, let’s also understand the implication of many students who get away with this. They move on to the next level with a shaky foundation. Shaky foundations usually result in collapsed structures. These students will end up as the future teachers, bankers, lawyers, accountants, engineers, pilots and guess what? Nurses, doctors, lab scientists and healthcare providers.
Think of this. Social media makes it easy to connect with former school mates. Some people belong to several school groups on social media. Some of these groups take it upon themselves to raise funds for their former schools. Sometimes to provide the most basic amenities like medicines, books, beds, ceiling fans, windows and mosquito nets. Things that the government should provide if the school is government owned. Many are moved to donating because they are concerned about the living condition of the students. Yes, we know that budget allocation for education is low but do we query how even that small allocation is used? Many old students’ groups have realised that their donations may never reach the beneficiaries. It’s not news that Nigerians are generally known to hold education in very high regard. That tag “graduate” is a source of pride to our people. It is also true that there is a tendency to look down on professions which may not be the highest paying professions but are essential to every society. However, not everyone can, needs or wants to attend a university or polytechnic.
What system of training does our educational system have in place for them? Not in theory but in reality. This path according to the 6-3-3-4 system of education is the secondary and post-secondary vocational education. How is this side of our educational system faring? Are these institutions functioning? Do we have enough of them? How many of our plumbers, carpenters, tailors, mechanics etc. were given the opportunity to pass through these schools? Do students who desire such careers not deserve to be taught properly also? Don’t Nigerians deserve well-trained plumbers, carpenters, electricians, hairdressers and others? In the end we all suffer from the inadequate training of these category of workers.
The irony of it all is that we adore children in our culture. Even the names we give our children is proof of this. These names suggest that children are blessings from the creator, wealth, special, insurance for old age etc. Politicians and leaders around the world talk about the future of their countries and remind their citizens on the need to take or not take certain actions to protect their country for the sake of their children and their children’s children. However, we who extol children and claim to cherish them are not doing much to protect their future. For those who do not care because their children are comfortable and sorted out, just remember that your children will have to live in the same country with the rest I do not think that posterity will judge how deeply we value children by the names we gave them but by whether we did right by them. The #ENDSARS protests should show that if we do not do right by our children, they will demand for the opportunities not given to them and the fallout from that may have far reaching consequences for our country. How can anyone be expected to love a country that has not loved him/her back? How can we expect the children to grow up as patriots? Most students have to sing the national anthem and recite the national pledge daily or weekly. The words of the pledge and national anthem if read attentively strike me as beautifully written prayers. A person who prays constantly and seems to get no respite for his condition or suffering may eventually stop believing. For those who do not care because their children are comfortable and sorted out, just remember that your children will have to live in the same country with the rest. The deprived ones will take their frustrations out on the comfortable and privileged.
Also remember that when there is a crisis, the mob is not likely to go after the “big” people who have all the security apparatus at their disposal. The mob usually goes after the average and normal people they can easily access. This is why we must insist that policy formulation and implementation must be in the best interest of the children. We must not tire from speaking out for the children. Nigeria belongs to them. Let’s be their advocates. The visits to the orphanages for Christmas and Children’s Day celebrations are nice. However, the quality of education they get and the prospect of living a decent life in their country are far more important. Guaranteeing that we give them a country that is filled with promise and opportunities.