The government of President Muhammadu Buhari has deployed the Editor-in-Chief of The Guardian, Debo Adesina, to Togo as Nigeria’s ambassador. In the list of recently approved deployment, the president sent a former Minister of State for Defence, Demola Seriki, to Spain as smbassador. Former Minister of Mines and Steel, Sarafa Ishola, on his part will be the Nigerian High Commissioner to the United Kingdom. In list of new postings, there 52 non-career officers  and 43 career ambassadors. Also, 11 ambassadors were re-appointed, eight of which were retained in their current countries of posting. The remaining three were redeployed. READ ALSO: Buhari Nominates Former Guardian Editor, Adesina, 41 Others As Ambassadors Nigerian Ambassador to Ireland, Dr Uzoma Emenike, was redeployed to the United States as the ambassador. M.I. Bashir is to serve as deputy ambassador in Washington DC. According to the list, the eight ambassadors that will remain at their duty posts include: Mohammed Rimi (United Arab Emirates), Jidda Baba (China), Gani Bura (Lebanon), Yusuf Tuggar (Germany), Baba Madugu (Switzerland) and Deborah Illiya (Congo). Ambassador Tijani Muhammmad-Bande will also retain his position as the Permanent Representative to the United Nations, New York while Adeyinka Asekun will remain the High Commissioner to Canada. However, Modupe Irele, who is the current Ambassador to France, will be redeployed to Hungary while Eniola Ajayi, the Ambassador to Hungary is expected to be redeployed to the Netherlands. READ ALSO: Buhari Approves Appointment Renewal For 12 Non-Career Ambassadors For non-career diplomats, Ms Ijeoma Chineyerem will resume as the Ambassador to Ireland, Oma Djebah will be posted to Thailand, Abdulahi Shehu (Russia), Haruna Manta (South Africa), Kayode Laro (France), Paul Adikwu (The Vatican), Abubakar Moriki (Japan), Mrs. Opunimi Akinkugbe (Greece) and Ali Magashi (South Korea). Other postings include M.O. Abam (Italy), N.A. Kolo (Israel), A. Sule (India), G.Y. Hamza (Ghana), A.N. Madubike (Australia) and O.C Onowu (Belgium). The remaining appointees will be expected to serve as deputy ambassadors or heads of mission. They include A.E. Alleboy (Deputy Ambassador to France), G.E. Edokpa (Deputy Permanent Representative to The UN), Ben Okoyen (Cuba), G.M. Okeke (Deputy Head of Mission to Switzerland), S.Sani to London, (Deputy High Commissioner to UK), I.A Iwejuo (Ethiopia as Deputy Ambassador), I.A. Alatishe (Deputy Ambassador to Russia) and I.R. Ocheni (Germany).