The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has denied reports that it has concluded work on the licensing framework that will open Nigerian telecoms market for the launch of Mobile Virtual Network Operators (MVNO). The NCC in statement on Friday disclosed instead that the framework, though very crucial towards the MVNO licencing was still not concluded. The statement signed by Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, NCC’s Director of Public Affairs, said, “For the avoidance of doubt, the Commission, on December 10, 2020, published on its official website, the first draft document on “Licence Framework for the Establishment of Mobile Virtual Network Operators in Nigeria.” “The publication followed an industry stakeholders’ workshop on MVNO for the purpose of collectively examining the potential benefits, technical feasibility, market demand and appropriate model for MVNO adoption in Nigeria. “In line with its regulatory procedures in policy formulation, the Commission, after uploading the document online requested for inputs, comments and submissions from industry stakeholders and other members of the public on the draft document, the collation of which are still ongoing.” The Commission, therefore, urged Nigerians and telecom consumers to disregard any report purporting that Nigeria was now open to this new segment of industry licences, as the licensing framework has not been concluded. Adinde also quoted the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof, Umar Danbatta, as saying that, “The ongoing development of the MVNO licensing framework is not yet concluded much less opening up the telecoms sector for the launch of MVNOs.” Danbatta said the Commission believed that the MVNOs have great prospects, especially considering the government’s efforts to extend telecom services to more rural, under-served and unserved communities across the country. He, however, stated that no action would be taken until the conclusion of the MVNO framework, consideration of inputs from all relevant stakeholders and the approval by the board of the Commission.