Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Thursday inaugurated a 5.6 kilometre Ibrahim Aliyu bypass road in Dutse, the Jigawa capital. Inaugurating the road project, Osibanjo lauded Governor Muhammed Badaru Abubakar for constructing several kilometres of road across the state. Osibanjo said the gesture would create an enabling environment for businesses to thrive in the state. He said the Federal Government would continue to support the state to achieve greater heights. “This is my second time of visiting Jigawa this year. I was here in April and any time you come to this state, you see new development. “I really congratulate you for constructing so many roads in the state. “This is the state that is declared third in the Ease of Doing Business ranking out of the 36 states of the federation. “Road construction will really create an enabling environment for businesses to thrive. “President Buhari will continue to support Jigawa because of your hard work, commitment and dynamism. “We will continue to ensure that we support the governor to achieve more,” the VP said. In a remark, Badaru-Abubakar said the road project designed with roundabout and monument was awarded in April 2013, at the cost of N3.1 billion to Dantata and Sawoe Nigeria Ltd He, therefore, urged benefiting communities to take ownership of the road through proper and regular maintenance. Speaking on behalf of the benefiting communities, the District Head of Dutse, Alhaji Jamilu Basiru commended the governor for constructing the road and other people-oriented projects in the area. Basiru said the road would ease transportation difficulties experienced by the residents of the area. The traditional ruler said, “On behalf of all the benefiting communities, we wish to commend you for constructing various roads in urban areas and rural communities. “These roads had eased movement of farmers to farm, students to schools, workers to office and sick to hospital.,” he said. Basiru further assured that the beneficiaries would do their bests to safeguard the road. (NAN)