Sadiya Umar- Farouq, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development has handed over 40 Operational Vehicles for onward distribution to Coordinators of State COVID-19 Action Recovery And Economic Stimulus (NG-CARES). Mrs. Nneka Anibeze, Special Assistant on Media to Farouq said this in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja. The vehicles, procured by the Federal Project Support Unit of the ministry were handed over to the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning Mr. Clem Agba. The NG CARES is the Federal Government initiative with support from the World Bank to mitigate effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Presenting the vehicles, Farouq thanked the World Bank for coming to the aid of the poor and vulnerable people of Nigeria affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. “I strongly believe that the vehicles that are being commissioned today will go a long way in assisting the state coordinators of the programme in carrying out the task of alleviating the suffering of ordinary people in the country. “Let me also commend efforts of the steering committee for N-CARES and the Federal Cares Technical Committee for their efforts in ensuring that the intervention from the World Bank gets to the people at the grassroots. “There is no doubt that this assistance from the World Bank will impact on the beneficiaries as well as contribute to the rebuilding of the economy and prosperity in Nigeria. “I therefore, urge the states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to ensure adequate utilisation of the vehicles and the resources from the World Bank to bring happiness to our people,” Farouq said. Speaking, Agba said the programme would assist vulnerable Nigerians who were hit by the pandemic. “The FG has approved the Nigeria COVID-19 Action and Recovery and Economic stimulus programme which is a multi sectoral programme. “It is designed to provide immediate emergency relief to vulnerable and poor Nigerians, small holder farmers and small and medium enterprises that were adversely affected by COVID-19 pandemic. “This was facilitated by the World Bank grant of 750 million dollars over a period of two years, starting from 2021 to 2023,” Agba said. Agba thanked Farouq for the special role played by the ministry, her untiring efforts and facilitating role played by the agencies under her supervision in the preparatory activities of the N- Cares Programme. He said each state would receive the sum of 20 million dollars over a period of two years while the FCT would get 15 million dollars and the Federal Care Support would get 15 million dollars respectively with effect from June 30, 2021. The handover of the vehicles is preparatory to implementation of the NG CARES programme. All States and the FCT are participating in the two-year emergency programme. (NAN)